The victim is Tony sallinger. He was found
dead in his hotel room by his sister. Ruth.
From now on. no more secrets.
What do you think he
meant by that? I have no idea.
This thing with the daughter.
is that a conflict of interest?
No. it was a two-minute
conversation. I'll ask
for the cctv. just so we can eliminate her.
You said you were
leaving. I changed my mind.
- To Kim.
I drank. What was the occasion?
Ian monkford. I'm arresting
you on suspicion of...
It's great. detective. but you're
greedy and you're impulsive.
and that makes you
dangerous to be around.
Do you fancy a trip to the coast?
So how's things with your daughter?
Yeah. she's not speaking to me.
Nope. she won't be.
She's going to punish
you about 50 times
before she eventually
gives you the time of day.
And what do I do until then?
Keep showing up. regardless of
how much she tries to push you away.
And eventually. those 50
punishments will run down to zero.
She's leaving soon.
You'd better get cracking. then.
His car was found over there.
With the keys still in it and the
suicide note on the dashboard.
I want to know a bit more about Alan.
This incident with Monica and the knife...
When. was it?
A few days before he
died. But you didn't see it?
No. I told you. I was at
uni. He told me about it.
Thanks.
But in the years before I left.
Monica and dad would argue a lot.
Not blazing rows. just sort of
tense. small sort of snipings.
Do you remember what about?
Michael. mostly.
How Monica Molly-coddled him. how
dad wanted him out from underneath them.
And me.
How dad was easier on me.
Well. at least according to her.
How that was giving Michael a complex.
Dad wanted out.
I know he did. but...
Not like this.
Why are you looking into all this again?
Well. it's possible that when Tony said "no
more secrets". he was talking to Monica.
And you think that my
dad is the secret? I think...
I'm late for work.
Cliff top only opened to
the public two months before
Alan bar ton was reported
missing. presumed dead.
Thank you. Since then. we've
sadly had one further suicide
and an accidental death there.
Now. the tide is very predictable.
even in extreme weather.
And both of those times. the body washed
up in the bay half a mile down the coast.
Alan's body didn't.
And no-one questioned
it at the time because
I guess no-one knew
about the tide patterns.
Kara and I have been back to the
hotel to check on Tony's sight lines.
When Tony said "no more secrets".
he was looking in a mirror at Monica.
So. what was his secret?
We've got two theories.
Either Monica killed Alan. Tony knew
and was threatening to expose her.
But what was Monica's
motive for killing Alan?
I mean. he had a couple of grand
of savings. but that was about it.
The cottage maybe? That's
what we need to find out.
The bit I don't get is
why she'd then tell Tony.
I mean. you'd keep
that to yourself. right?
Again. that's what we need to find out.
The other theory is that Tony
was summoning up the courage
to tell Monica that he lied
about his job and his money.
Now. Monica says that Tony told
her the week before the wedding.
What if he didn't? What
if he told her that night?
What. and then she killed him?
That's quite a reaction. isn't it?
Yeah. well even if she didn't
kill her first husband. Alan.
the daughter said that Monica
once threatened him with a knife.
So we're dealing with someone potentially
prone to aggression and violent outbursts.
Kara. Sally. Dan. go back through
the reports into Alan's suicide.
we need to see if there's
anything that they missed.
Simon. Liam. Katie.
talk to Monica's friends.
Did she mention Tony's
financial situation to anyone
and. crucially. when did he tell her?
And we still haven't figured
out who this figure in the coat is.
Hey. look who it is. Barney.
How you doing. boss?
All right. all right. All right. all right.
Yeah. yeah. yeah.
good to see you. all right.
They've discharged you from
the hospital. I mean. not technically.
I thought you'd all be
missing me by now!
Are you ok? Yeah.
doctor said it's a scratch.
Sorry. Jim. you carry on.
That's ok. we were just finishing.
Thank you. everyone.
Mate.
Hey. boss. Thanks. mate. Cheers. mate.
Yes. mate. Good to have you back.
How you feeling? Like I just got stabbed.
So no. you shouldn't be here. What am
I supposed to do? I can't go to the gym.
Let me bring you up
to speed. Yeah. all right.
Lots to fill you in on.
Ian has confessed to killing
Karl and to swapping the bloods
and obviously to the attack on you.
He's adamant he didn't kill Tony.
You believe him? I do.
Wish I didn't.
So. yeah. the current focus is Monica.
And there's a possibility that her first
husband's suicide was actually staged.
Yeah. and Tony knew and
threatened to expose her.
That's what Nicola said. right? Yeah.
The other theory is that
Tony told her about his
financial situation. And
she lost her shit. yeah.
About what you said
at the hospital... Jim.
What happened was really shit.
I'd like to put it behind
me. ok? We're good.
What happened there?
I've no idea. Barney.
I didn't expect to see you back so soon.
Discharged this morning.
That's surprising. after
such a close shave.
Thank god Jim arrived when he did.
Take it steady. Barney.
Understood. ma'am. About time
some of the others did some work?
Boss. have you got a minute? Well...
Yeah. So the footage from the
night of Tony's murder came in.
What footage? Costello's. the restaurant.
The footage of you and Nicola bar ton.
When you disclosed you had
contact with Nicola the night of.
you said it was a two
minute conversation.
It wasn't. It was longer. Really?
Way longer.
It was 43 minutes. 43 minutes?
Wow. ok. yeah.
You do understand I need to put this
on the cms. don't you? Yeah. of course.
Which means that everyone
in here can access that
footage. Yeah. I know
how the cms works. Kara.
And see that your two
minute conversation
with a person connected to the
case was actually much longer.
And much more cosy than you initially
let on. Cosy is... it's subjective.
Maybe. But the time stamp isn't.
Look. maybe you lost track of time.
or maybe you thought
it was inconsequential.
But. please. get your
fucking story straight...
Sir.
I thought you'd gone back to Manchester.
I decided to stick around.
visit some old haunts.
Like the cliff?
A friend saw you there this morning.
Sorry. that sounds...
I mean. you can... you can do
what you like. I just mean that I...
I wish I'd known you were still here.
We could've spent a bit of time together.
And done what?
I thought we'd made some progress. nic.
I explained how your father was.
I know that it must've
been difficult for you to...
But. you know. I thought it might
have answered some questions for you.
No. It did.
It's just being back in Jersey.
It's harder than I thought it would be.
Being back around me. you mean.
I mean. have you heard
about love languages?
People have different ways
of demonstrating their love
and I think that I had a way of
showing you that I loved you.
because I did.
I... I do.
And I think it's something
that I learned from my mum.
She was... She was practical.
She was endlessly practical.
So the house was
clean and we were clean
and there was food and... you know?
I think that that's what
I associate with love.
And it's just as deep as
something more demonstrative.
But maybe it's not how
you needed to be loved.
Yeah.
That would make a lot of sense.
if I hadn't seen you do it with Michael.
You weren't practical with him.
You engaged with him.
You gave him energy.
And time.
And love.
And I got...
What was left.
Well. Michael just demanded
more. he needed more.
You didn't have to give it to
him. You could have said no.
You can't say no to a child like that.
So I'm left with this impossible
choice of what to believe. yeah?
That. you couldn't love
me because of some...
Flaw in you?
Some bit in you that's missing?
Or that ultimately because
I'm just too hard to love.
What?
No. That's not... Christ. no. Just stop!
Sh.
This is why I didn't want to see you.
Because these
conversations are too hard.
I'm sorry...
About Tony. but...
I want you to leave now.
Have kids.
Then we'll talk.
Kim.
I know you're furious with me
and you have every right to be.
But you're leaving soon. you
know. and I would just love it
if you would consider forgiving me
just a bit quicker than
you would normally.
I have forgiven you.
Yeah. I know. It just doesn't feel like that.
I'm just tired.
Thanks for the lift.
49 to go.
Jim.
Nigel... I'm sorry
doesn't even come close.
It's ok. Jim. really. It
was... it was an accident.
No. it's not ok. It's...
It was out of line and. look. I'm sorry.
Apology unnecessary. but accepted.
Is Charlie in?
Christ.
Well. if you're sure.
Hi. Charlie.
Look. I just wanted to say...
How sorry I am. about the party.
Is that it?
Well. yeah.
I don't know what else there is to say.
When Rachel died. you
were devasted. as was I.
As was everyone.
In many ways. we will never
fully recover. I appreciate that.
But the rest of us. even her daughter.
are managing to function now.
And so for you to still be spreading
such olympic-standard chaos
would suggest an element of choice.
Of choice?
At the risk of sounding condescending.
you do know that I'm an alcoholic?
Really?
You should have
mentioned that. Wait. you do.
Endlessly.
You know. Rachel was exquisite.
She was perfect.
She was better than
me in every single way.
but she never made me
feel like I didn't deserve her.
But from the moment we met.
I have spent every single day
trying to prove myself worthy to you.
I have lowered the bar
as far as I can for you. Jim.
Any lower. it'll be in the cellar.
Not getting drunk at Kim's leaving party
was all that was required of you.
I'm sorry even that proved too much.
Jim.
That actually went better than I expected.
How do you deal with her?
Well. when you get to my age
and you've been through some...
Some stuff.
not to suggest you haven't
had your own share of stuff...
But. I lost a child.
My first wife and I.
When he was only two.
God.
Nigel. I'm... I'm sorry.
And obviously. that's something
Charlie and I have in common.
And...
The one thing about
something so unfair. so...
So savage. is...
It gives you some perspective...
And some Patience.
I'll talk to her.
All shall be well.
And all manner of things shall be well.
Thank you.
And sorry again.
You should see the other guy!
Simon. talk to me.
Monica was telling the truth.
I spoke to one of her
bridesmaids and according to her.
Tony had told Monica about his financial
situation a week before the wedding.
Ok. Did she say how Monica responded?
Well. not thrilled. but not filled
with murderous rage either.
Ok. and I take it we're still nowhere
with the figure in the coat? Yeah.
Yeah. we aren't.
Kara?
I had a look at Alan's phone
records and I found some calls
that the original investigation
must have missed.
Who are Phillips & hawthorne?
Solicitors on the mainland who
happen to specialise in divorce.
I spoke to them. they dug out the notes.
They said Alan bar ton spoke to them about
divorcing Monica two weeks before he died.
Monica didn't mention
it in either investigation.
Which means she didn't know. Or she
concealed it. Yeah.
Read the third paragraph.
Ok. wow. there we go.
I'm going to put this to Monica.
And. yeah. obviously
you can come too. Barney.
You should come too.
yeah? If you're up for it.
I think I can manage sitting in the car and
then sitting in a chair in her living room.
Good.
Yeah. brilliant. Let's go.
Thanks.
Yeah. see you in the car.
If they get divorced. you're going
into foster care! Don't say that!
Listen. I thought you should
know. I was with Jim bergerac today.
I've finally got him to look into
my dad's death again. Right.
So you're still looping all
this back to Monica then?
She threatened my dad with
a knife. I call that a red flag.
I'm confused.
I thought you thought Monica did it too?
When I saw her. Michael was there.
And he got into an
argument with his neighbour.
He was out of control.
Just the rage. Monica
actually had to hold him back.
I just think maybe we're
looking in the wrong place.
You think Michael
might have killed Tony?
Maybe.
And maybe not just Tony.
My dad too?
Come on. Well. we've talked a lot about
whether Monica did it. but never how.
How did she overpower two husbands.
two fully grown men who
would have fought back?
We just have a couple more
things we'd just like to run by you.
How would you describe
your relationship with Alan
around the time of his death?
Well. what's this got
to do with Tony's death?
We're still trying to
establish what Tony meant
when he said "no more secrets".
You described Alan as "in a
dark place" before his death.
Well. he... He killed himself.
Unless I've read too much into that.
You said that he was
erratic and unpredictable.
yet we found no evidence
to corroborate that.
If anything. mrs sallinger.
we found that he was
making plans for his future.
You've been talking to Nicola.
I don't know why she's dredging all
this up again. I thought we'd settled this.
Were you aware that. shortly before his
death. Alan contacted a divorce lawyer?
What?
No.
No. I didn't know that.
They had two conversations.
The solicitor described him as buoyed by
the discussions and hopeful for his future.
He said the final straw
was a fight the two of
you had where you
threatened him with a knife.
No. That never happened.
I know this is hard. Monica.
but we're still exactly where we
were on the night of Tony's death.
And look. "no more secrets"
meant something. ok?
And you don't upend your
wedding day for a joke.
Now. there are people who
loved Tony. You loved Tony.
And so we owe it to all of you to
explore every lead. answer every question.
I'm really sorry. but that's
led us to Alan's death.
And look. if there is nothing. if there is no
relevance. then I swear
to you we will move on.
But we won't know until we ask.
Ok.
What?
It's true. the knife.
It's true.
But when Alan spoke to
Nicola and this solicitor.
he left out some pretty crucial context.
He did change. his
behaviour did change.
And I hid it too because I
didn't want people to think ill
of this beautiful. kind man that I loved.
One night. he hit me.
And I grabbed a knife.
because he kept
coming towards me and.
I told him to get out of the house.
And I didn't see him for a few
days. so that must've been when he.
when he spoke to Nicola and this lawyer.
Anyway. after a while. he came home.
And he was full of this indignation.
And. he said that I had attacked him.
and I said. "no. Alan. you hit me."
Cos I still had the bruise.
And. he was devastated.
Because his father was
abusive towards his mother.
and him and his brother.
and. there he was...
Completing the cycle.
Becoming the thing that
he swore he'd never be.
I see it in Michael too. sometimes.
And a few days later. he died.
I couldn't tell the kids. I mean.
Nicola would never believe me.
She will never let this go.
God. Michael.
You all right? I'm fine.
Michael! Michael. please... Michael!
Come back!
My god. you've got to go after him. Why?
He must have heard everything that I said
about Alan. he didn't know any of that.
I'm sure he'll be fine. No. no.
no. Look. you don't understand.
he's fragile. he's been going
to the cliffs where Alan died.
When he's like this I have no
idea what he's capable of. Please.
Please.
We need all available units
dispatched to the morbury Cliffside
and a bolo put out for Michael
bar ton. driving a blue vw Polo.
Shit.
Hey!
Is he... No sign! No
sign of his car either!
We've got a visual on Michael's car.
Where? Pulling in to
the Clifton hotel. Jesus.
What? We need a unit
at the Clifton immediately.
Quiet approach. room 401.
we do not want him spooked.
Wait. What is in 401?
It's Nicola barton's room. We don't
know what Michael's capable of.
He's not the one in danger. Nicola is.
Come on!
We've got laws against doing that.
Hi. you've reached
Nicola barton's phone.
Shit.
How did you know her room number?
What?
Doesn't matter.
Hello. welcome to the
Clifton. do you have a...
Room 401? Fourth floor.
but you'll need a key card.
Hey. we need a room pass for room 401.
Ok. I just need a credit card
to activate the room pass.
Thank you so much.
Ok. just... 401. yeah.
Please. please. can you just hurry?
All righty. there we go.
there's your room card.
I'm sorry. the lift's undergoing
maintenance at this present moment in time.
Of course it is.
Argh.
You all right? I'm fine. Just go.
Wait! Wait!
Wait!
Michael. no. No.
Well. enough is enough!
Go. go!
Police! Police!
I didn't do anything. I
didn't do anything. I swear.
Are you ok?
Nicola. what is it?
Nicola!
What is this?
Bermuda.
I can't believe it.
Well. it's true.
So you can stop now. you
can finally leave us alone.
I don't understand. what is
this? What's the confusing bit?
It's from him.
Alan. my father.
He's not dead.
It arrived the day
before my 30th birthday.
A few months earlier. dad had
been officially declared dead
and mum had arranged a little
gathering for us to say goodbye.
And Nicola came.
Reeking of vodka. as per.
And that's when she first
suggested that our mother.
a woman who has to literally
ask me to open jars for her.
killed our father.
I mean. it's ludicrous.
Anyway. that's when the card arrived.
At first I thought it was Nicola.
playing some sort of joke.
But then. the postmark...
And the date.
And you didn't tell Monica?
Mum. by the way. dad's alive.
He'd just rather you think he was
dead than ever talk to you again.
No. I didn't.
I didn't tell anyone.
The police had ruled it a
suicide for the second time.
Nicola had been extradited
back up to her northern town.
I didn't think that there was
any point in exhuming it all again.
But. then. Tony died.
And when Nicola reappeared
and started trotting out her greatest hits.
I did think about telling her then.
but the next minute she
was leaving. so I didn't bother.
Except. she didn't...
Did she?
I saw you with her...
At the cliffs.
And sure enough. you
descended on my mother.
parroting Nicola's slurred
fantasies like they were facts.
Right. I thought. enough is enough.
He's taken quite a bit
risk there. your father.
How did he know that you wouldn't tell
your mother and Nicola straight away?
Nicola likes to tell everyone about this...
Special relationship she had with dad.
but I was the son.
I was his blood. He could trust me.
But look. don't get me wrong...
I mean...
I feel sorry for her.
It must be quite a shock.
You know. to...
To find out that someone would
literally fake their own death
rather than spend time with you.
I mean...
That's bound to smart a little.
Forensics have checked
the postmark. it's authentic.
Definitely sent from Bermuda.
What about the handwriting?
They've only been able to
do a preliminary analysis.
they still need to do
full bells and whistles.
but they compared the card with
confirmed examples of Alan's handwriting.
and it's a match.
Right. so. Monica didn't kill
Tony because of the money.
she didn't kill him because
he was about to tell the
world that she killed Alan.
which would suggest...
She didn't kill Tony.
Ok. so we keep
looking. we keep digging.
Jim. I'd like a word with you.
Can someone tell Monica sallinger
her first husband is alive and well
and living in Bermuda?
I'll call their family liaison.
Kara. did the footage come
back from the bar of Nicola bar ton?
Yeah. it's on the cms. Yeah.
and? It was deemed irrelevant.
What's your next move?
I've absolutely no idea.
Well. whatever it is. it
won't involve Barney.
We need to send him
home. He's practically green.
Yeah. that's my fault for allowing him
to accompany me to interview Michael.
I'll make sure he stays
behind his desk from now on.
You seem uncharacteristically
eager to keep him here.
Normally I have to sit you
two as far apart as possible.
Well. he's an exceptional officer
and an integral part of the team.
Now I'm really suspicious.
Why did he go and see Ian
monkford without backup?
We were working in parallel
and we both uncovered different
strands of evidence against him.
That's not what I asked.
He went without telling his
colleagues. specifically you.
suggesting a troubling. and
in this case. potentially fatal
breakdown in communication.
Something's going on.
And it's becoming a problem.
Sort it out. Jim. Redraw
some boundaries.
Listen... don't start. I'm fine.
You're not. You need to go home.
Has that come from uma?
Me! It's come from me.
Take your time. get better.
Christ. at this rate...
I'm just in the middle of something here.
do you need me to leave
this second or can I finish?
You all right? Absolutely sensational.
Good. Well. I know that
despite your best efforts
to conceal it. Kim leaving
is challenging for you.
so it'd be all right if
things weren't all right.
Yes. it is challenging for me.
But I think it's important
Kim isn't privy to that.
The last thing she needs is to feel guilty
about what she's leaving behind.
That would be selfish. And
I'll leave that to her father.
What was Jim like before Rachel died?
Very different. Capable.
Besotted with the two girls.
but steady. reliable.
Right. so this isn't him.
he's still hijacked by the grief.
He's... a man possessed.
When did you become
a functioning adult again?
How long did it take?
It's a work in progress. I'm
saying be patient with him.
I'm not making any promises.
That's my girl.
I'd like to give you the
money for the restaurant.
It would be a loan. obviously.
but. seems rather silly.
You need the money and I've
got it sitting in my bank account.
Right. That's very kind of you. but no.
No. what?
No. thank you. But why not?
Because it would be
emasculating. and utterly humiliating.
For god's sake. so
this is about pride. is it?
It's all I have. Charlie. I
don't have any property.
I. I don't have any investments. I.
I don't even have a family.
My pride is the one thing
I've been able to cling on to.
so. no. But again. thank you.
Where are you going? I need to pee.
I don't need any help with that either.
Goodnight. boss. Goodnight.
Nicola?
Hey.
I'm in here.
Free upgrade. due to the door.
So. thank you.
That's Monica. She keeps calling.
Er. that will...
Yeah. someone will have just told her.
I'm sorry. it's looking
like the card is genuine.
It can't be... I'm sorry.
Because my dad is dead.
He wouldn't do this to me.
Hey. it's... It's ok.
It's ok.
Christ. is that Monica again?
It's Kim.
I'll take this outside.
Hi! Hey. sweetheart.
I'm staying another night at granny's.
Yeah. ok. Yeah. Er. that's... That's fine.
will I... I pick you up tomorrow?
I'll text you.
Didn't even make it to the door.
She rang you. though.
She could've just texted.
She wants a dialogue.
Yeah? You really think so?
Is this what being a parent is like?
Your kid becomes
like someone you have
a crush on at school.
and you're constantly trying
to decipher every single interaction.
She asked me earlier for a lift.
I think she likes you. Jim.
Yeah. you see. now you've made it weird.
Well. she's just... she's trying
to keep the channels open.
She just wants to run it down
from 50 to zero as much as you.
What are you doing. Jim?
In what sense? In any sense!
The case.
Us.
There can't be any "us".
So stop showing up at my hotel.
I know. I'm sorry.
Just. hold that thought.
I. I just... I've gotta pee.
My god.
Er. where's the mini bar?
Er. you're kidding. right?
I thought we could
share a sparkling water.
Yeah. Let's push the boat out.
It's in the wardrobe.
Have you found it?
Jim?
Subtitles by red bee media